# 2020-05-12 - Minutes (v1)
# JobHopper - Data Breakout Group

## Attendees
Lou Madge, Scott Lundgren, Anna Stansbury, Sihao Cao, Adam, Emily Roessel, Melissa Luna

### Data Overview - Anna
#### Overview of the Burning Glass Resume Data
- Taking pairs of occupations year over year
- SOC codes
- Percentage of people in an occupation who have changed to another occupation
- Transitions up until 2016 (static data source from Burning Glass)
- We might not need new data, because these data show latent similarities between occupations that likely won’t change a lot
- Data is national

1. Time Transitions:
  - We don’t use the time transitions as much because the data are heavily weighted toward recent years - but we could look at the big occupations and see if we can see time series

1. Can we see how disparate the transitions are?
  - For example, seeing how how different the occupations that folks have moved to

1. Consecutive pairs of job years:
  - Might be able to extrapolate from year pairings how fulfilling an occupation is - for example, how long people tend to stay in the occupation (caveat - might also just show how it’s hard to leave the occupation)

1. Data Set Linking:
  - O*Net
    - Has a public API so whatever we do could link directly (Scott)
    - Batch downloadable too

1. What could we learn?
  - Anna: thinking of the network image she has on her sides - you see one occupation and click on related occupations to learn about the related occupations

1. What questions do we want to ask?
  - How freeform do we want this to be? This wil help determine what the backend looks like:
    - If we want to be super free form, would use Mongo
    - If we have time to plan, and have regular, standardized queries, then we can use SQL, Ruby Rails, Python
      - Note: Lou suggests we also plan based on the skill set of this group

### Next Steps - Questions
1. Skill sets, years of experience,  and educational requirements of each occupation
1. General demographics (race, sex, age, veteran status) of these occupations
1. Salary data
1. Whether or not on the job training is available or what the overhead / average cost / time is to train-up for a type of transition.
1. Probability of success: how many people got training - how many of them ended up in that field
  - Bootcamps are supposed to report into CIRR to share their outcomes
  - College outcomes are available
  - WIOA outcomes funding
  - Note on this: if we aren’t able to provide consistent data overall, then we should start on the lowest common denominator
1. Should we focus on location? (state? Mass? nationwide?)
  - Decision: Starting with National data
